DOC-4329 - Add Gamification extension documentation to the developer … (#144)
exoplatform/exo-documentation: docs/Gamification_extension_mechanism.rst

.. _Gamification_extension_mechanism:

##################################
Gamification extension mechanism
##################################

>     The Gamification feature provide a simple extension mechanism that can be used to extend the gamification configuration by adding  Rules, Domains and Badges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The Gamification feature provides a simple extension mechanism that could be used to extend the gamification configuration by adding Rules, Domains and Badges.
```

>     This mechanism also allow developers to easily add new events without having to make any changes on the Gamification code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This mechanism allows also developers to easily add new events without having to make any changes to the Gamification code.
```

>     This mechanism allows also developers to easily add new events without having to make any changes to the Gamification code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This mechanism also lets developers easily add declare new events (to be used in gamification rules when triggered) without having to make any change to the Gamification code.
```

>     This mechanism also lets developers easily add declare new events (to be used in gamification rules when triggered) without having to make any change to the Gamification code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This mechanism also lets developers easily declare new events (to be used in gamification rules when triggered) without having to make any change to the Gamification add-on code itself.
```

==============
Add new rules
==============

> To add new rules to the gamification configuration a simple external component plugin should be added to your addon configuration, this plugin should define the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add new rules to the gamification configuration, a simple external component plugin should be added to your addon configuration, this plugin should define the following information :
```

Rule configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> -  ``rule-title``: The event name of the new rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  ``rule-title``: The  name of the event associated to the rule.
```

-  ``rule-description``: The description of the new rule.

> -  ``rule-score``: The score of the new rule (number of gamification points awarded when the event related to the rule is executed).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  ``rule-score``: The number of gamification points awarded when the event related to the rule is triggered.
```

> -  ``rule-score``: The score of the new rule (number of gamification point that will be awarded when the event related to the rule will be executed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  ``rule-score``: The score of the new rule (number of gamification points awarded when the event related to the rule is executed).
```

> -  ``rule-zone``: The Domain name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  ``rule-zone``: The gamification domain name.
```

> -  ``rule-enable``: Define if the rule is enabled or not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  ``rule-enable``: Define if the rule is enabled or not (true/false)
```

> -  ``rule-enable``: Define is the rule is enabled or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  ``rule-enable``: Define if the rule is enabled or not
```

.. code:: xml

    <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.addons.gamification.service.setting.rule.RuleRegistry</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
            <name>pushCode</name>
            <set-method>addPlugin</set-method>
            <type>org.exoplatform.addons.gamification.service.setting.rule.model.RuleConfig</type>
            <init-params>
                <value-param>
                    <name>rule-title</name>
                    <value>pushCode</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>rule-description</name>

>                     <value>You pushed a code</value>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    <value>You pushed some code</value>
```

                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>rule-score</name>
                    <value>15</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>rule-zone</name>
                    <value>Development</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>rule-enable</name>
                    <value>true</value>
                </value-param>
            </init-params>
        </component-plugin>
    </external-component-plugins>

===============
Add new domains
===============

> To add new domain to the gamification configuration a simple external component plugin should be added to your addon configuration, this plugin should define the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a new domain to the gamification configuration, a simple external component plugin should be added to your  configuration. This plugin should define the following information:
```

Domain configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  ``zone-name``: The name of the new domain.
-  ``zone-description``: The description of the new domain.

> -  ``zone-priority``: The domain priority.

Reviewer 2: It is not clear how priority is used and what are the possible valuea)

Author: This property is not used anywhere, but still exist in the code and configuration.

> -  ``zone-priority``: The domain priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  ``zone-priority``: The domain priority (reserved for future use)
```

.. code:: xml

    <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.addons.gamification.service.setting.zone.ZoneRegistry</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
            <name>developer.zone</name>
            <set-method>addPlugin</set-method>
            <type>org.exoplatform.addons.gamification.service.setting.zone.model.ZoneConfig</type>
            <init-params>
                <value-param>
                    <name>zone-name</name>
                    <value>Development</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>zone-description</name>
                    <value>Development</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>zone-priority</name>
                    <value>5</value>
                </value-param>
            </init-params>
        </component-plugin>
    </external-component-plugins>

===============
Add new badges
===============

> To add new badge to the gamification configuration a simple external component plugin should be added to your addon configuration, this plugin should define the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add new badges to the gamification configuration, a simple external component plugin should be added to your addon configuration. This plugin should define the following information:
```

Badge configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  ``badge-title``: The name of the new badge.
-  ``badge-description``: The description of the new badge.
-  ``badge-domain``: The domain of the new badge.

> -  ``badge-icon``: The icon of the badge.

Reviewer 2: it is not clear what format should be used for the icon

> -  ``badge-neededScore``: The needed score that the user should have to get the badge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  ``badge-neededScore``: The score required in the domain to earn this badge.
```

> -  ``badge-neededScore``: The needed score that the user should have to get the badge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  ``badge-neededScore``: The needed score the user should have to get the badge.
```

> -  ``badge-enable``: Define if the rule is enabled or not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  ``badge-enable``: Define if the badge is enabled or not (true/false)
```

> -  ``badge-enable``: Define is the rule is enabled or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  ``badge-enable``: Define if the rule is enabled or not
```

> -  ``badge-icon``: The icon of the badge (ex: icon_name.png), This icon file should be added under the folder '\resources\medias\images' of your addon jar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  ``badge-icon``: The icon of the badge (ex: icon_name.png), This icon file should be added under the folder '\resources\medias\images' of your addon’s jar.
```

.. code:: xml

    <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.addons.gamification.service.setting.badge.BadgeRegistry</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
            <name>badge.SocialNovice</name>
            <set-method>addPlugin</set-method>
            <type>org.exoplatform.addons.gamification.service.setting.badge.model.BadgeConfig</type>
            <init-params>
                <value-param>
                    <name>badge-title</name>
                    <value>Social Novice</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>badge-description</name>
                    <value>Growing your network and ramping up your interactions</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>badge-domain</name>
                    <value>Social</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>badge-icon</name>

>                     <value>socialNovice.png</value>

Reviewer 2: Should clarify where/how this image should be packaged by 3rd party developers that want to customize badges

                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>badge-neededScore</name>
                    <value>50</value>
                </value-param>
                <value-param>
                    <name>badge-enable</name>
                    <value>true</value>
                </value-param>
            </init-params>
        </component-plugin>
    </external-component-plugins>

===============
Add new event
===============

> To be able to fire events that will increase the number of points on gamification system all you have to do is to broadcast a specific gamification event from your addon code using the eXo ListenerService.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gamification uses eXo Event/Listener mechanism to grant points when configured events match a rule. To trigger a rule in the gamification system all you have to do is to broadcast a specific gamification event from your addon code using the eXo ListenerService.
```

> Gamification uses eXo Event/Listener mechanism to grant points when configured events match a rule. To trigger a rule in the gamification system all you have to do is to broadcast a specific gamification event from your addon code using the eXo ListenerService.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gamification uses eXo Platform's Event/Listener mechanism to grant points when configured events match a rule. To trigger a rule in the gamification system, all you have to do is to broadcast a specific gamification event from your addon code using the ListenerService.
```

This can be done by adding the following code:

.. code:: java

> 

Reviewer 2: should shoulw the import here so that developer does not have to look for it. We may also indicate which jar (maven dependency) they should add. Or maybe this tutorial should simply start by giving a link to the GitHub connector code repo as a sample code.

      Map<String, String> gam = new HashMap<>();
      gam.put("ruleTitle", ruleTitle);
      gam.put("senderId", senderId);
      gam.put("receiverId", receiverId);
      gam.put("object", object);
      listenerService.broadcast("exo.gamification.generic.action", gam, "");

with:

> -  ``ruleTitle``: The name gamification event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  ``ruleTitle``: The name of the gamification event.
```

-  ``senderId``: The userName of the user who excuted the action.
-  ``receiverId``: The userName of the user who will get the gamification points.

> -  ``object``: Should be a link to the object related to the action executed.

Reviewer 2: the term link to the object is unclear. an example could help
